CAPITAL
Cap"i*tal, a. Etym: [F. capital, L. capitalis capital (in senses 1 &
2), fr. caput head. See Chief, and cf. Capital, n.]

1. Of or pertaining to the head. [Obs.]
Needs must the Serpent now his capital bruise Expect with mortal
pain. Milton.

2. Having reference to, or involving, the forfeiture of the head or
life; affecting life; punishable with death; as, capital trials;
capital punishment.
Many crimes that are capital among us. Swift.
To put to death a capital offender. Milton.

3. First in importance; chief; principal.
A capital article in religion Atterbury.
Whatever is capital and essential in Christianity. I. Taylor.

4. Chief, in a political sense, as being the seat of the general
government of a state or nation; as, Washington and Paris are capital
cities.

5. Of first rate quality; excellent; as, a capital speech or song.
[Colloq.]

Capital letter Etym: [F, lettre capitale] (Print.), a leading or
heading letter, used at the beginning of a sentence and as the first
letter of certain words, distinguished, for the most part, both by
different form and larger size, from the small (lower-case) letters,
which form the greater part of common print or writing.
 -- Small capital letters have the form of capital letters and height
of the body of the lower-case letters.
 -- Capital stock, money, property, or stock invested in any
business, or the enterprise of any corporation or institution.
Abbott.

Syn.
 -- Chief; leading; controlling; prominent.
CAPITAL

=====
Cap"i*tal, n. Etym: [Cf. L. capitellum and Capitulum, a small head,
the head, top, or capital of a column, dim. of caput head; F.
chapiteau, OF. capitel. See Chief, and cf. Cattle, Chattel, Chapiter,
Chapter.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: The head or uppermost member of a column, pilaster, etc. It
consists generally of three parts, abacus, bell (or vase), and
necking. See these terms, and Column.

2. Etym: [Cf. F. capilate, fem., sc. ville.] (Geog.)

Defn: The seat of government; the chief city or town in a country; a
metropolis. "A busy and splendid capital" Macauly.

3. Etym: [Cf. F. capital.]

Defn: Money, property, or stock employed in trade, manufactures,
etc.; the sum invested or lent, as distinguished from the income or
interest. See Capital stock, under Capital, a.

4. (Polit. Econ.)

Defn: That portion of the produce of industry, which may be directly
employed either to support human beings or to assist in production.
M'Culloch.

Note: When wealth is used to assist production it is called capital.
The capital of a civilized community includes fixed capital (i.e.
buildings, machines, and roads used in the course of production and
exchange) amd circulating capital (i.e., food, fuel, money, etc.,
spent in the course of production and exchange). T. Raleing.

5. Anything which can be used to increase one's power or influence.
He tried to make capital out of his rival's discomfiture. London
Times.

6. (Fort.)

Defn: An imaginary line dividing a bastion, ravelin, or other work,
into two equal parts.

7. A chapter, or section, of a book. [Obs.]
Holy St. Bernard hath said in the 59th capital. Sir W. Scott.

8. (Print.)

Defn: See Capital letter, under Capital, a. Active capital. See under
Active, -- Small capital (Print.), a small capital letter. See under
Capital, a.
 -- To live on one's capital, to consume one's capital without
producing or accumulating anything to replace it.
