ELEMENT
El"e*ment, n. Etym: [F. élément, L. elementum.]

1. One of the simplest or essential parts or principles of which
anything consists, or upon which the constitution or fundamental
powers of anything are based.

2. One of the ultimate, undecomposable constituents of any kind of
matter. Specifically: (Chem.) A substance which cannot be decomposed
into different kinds of matter by any means at present employed; as,
the elements of water are oxygen and hydrogen.

Note: The elements are naturally classified in several families or
groups, as the group of the alkaline elements, the halogen group, and
the like. They are roughly divided into two great classes, the
metals, as sodium, calcium, etc., which form basic compounds, and the
nonmetals or metalloids, as oxygen, sulphur, chlorine, which form
acid compounds; but the distinction is only relative, and some, as
arsenic, tin, aluminium, etc., form both acid and basic compounds.
The essential fact regarding every element is its relative atomic
weight or equivalent. When the elements are tabulated in the order of
their ascending atomic weights, the arrangement constitutes the
series of the Periodic law of Mendelejeff. See Periodic law, under
Periodic. This Periodic law enables us to predict the qualities of
unknown elements. The number of elements known is about seventy-five,
but the gaps in the Periodic law indicate the possibility of many
more. Many of the elements with which we are familiar, as hydrogen,
carbon, iron, gold, etc., have been recognized, by means of spectrum
analysis, in the sun and the fixed stars. From certain evidence (as
that afforded by the Periodic law, spectrum analysis, etc.) it
appears that the chemical elements probably may not be simple bodies,
but only very stable compounds of some simpler body or bodies. In
formulas, the elements are designated by abbreviations of their names
in Latin or New Latin.

The Elements --------------------------------------------------------
----Name |Sym-|Atomic Weight| |bol | O=16 | H=1 | -------------------
-----------------------------------------Aluminum | Al | 27.1 | 26.9|
Antimony(Stibium) Argon Arsenic Barium Beryllium (see Glucinum)
Bismuth Boron Bromine Cadmium Caesium Calcium Carbon Cerium Chlorine
Chromium Cobalt Columbium Copper (Cuprum) Erbium Fluorine Gadolinium
Gallium Germanium Glucinum Gold Helium Hydrogen Indium Iodine Iridium
Iron (Ferrum) Krypton Lanthanum Lead (Plumbum) Lithium Magnesium
Manganese Mercury (Hydrargyrum) Molybdenum Neodymium Neon Nickel
Niobium (see Columbium) Nirogen Osmium Oxygen Palladium Phosphorus
Platinum Potassium (Kalium) Praseodymium Rhodium Rubidium Ruthenium

-----------------------------------------------------------The
Elements -- continued -----------------------------------------------
-------------Name Samarium Scandium Selenium Silicon Silver
(Argentum) Sodium (Natrium) Strontium Sulphur Tantalum Tellurium
Thallium Thorium Thulium Tin (Stannum) Titanium Tungsten (Wolframium)
Uranium Vanadium Wolfranium (see Tungsten) Xenon Ytterbium Yttrium
Zinc Zirconium ------------------------------------------------------
------

Note: Several other elements have been announced, as holmium,
vesbium, austrium, etc., but their properties, and in some cases
their existence, have not yet been definitely established.

3. One of the ultimate parts which are variously combined in
anything; as, letters are the elements of written language; hence,
also, a simple portion of that which is complex, as a shaft, lever,
wheel, or any simple part in a machine; one of the essential
ingredients of any mixture; a constituent part; as, quartz, feldspar,
and mica are the elements of granite.
The simplicity which is so large an element in a noble nature was
laughed to scorn. Jowett (Thucyd.).

4.
(a) One out of several parts combined in a system of aggregation,
when each is of the nature of the whole; as, a single cell is an
element of the honeycomb.
(b) (Anat.) One of the smallest natural divisions of the organism, as
a blood corpuscle, a muscular fiber.

5. (Biol.)

Defn: One of the simplest essential parts, more commonly called
cells, of which animal and vegetable organisms, or their tissues and
organs, are composed.

6. (Math.)
(a) An infinitesimal part of anything of the same nature as the
entire magnitude considered; as, in a solid an element may be
infinitesimal portion between any two planes that are separated and
indefinitely small distance. In the calculus, element is sometimes
used as synonymous with differential.
(b) Sometimes a curve, or surface, or volume is considered as
described by a moving point, or curve, or surface, the latter being
at any instant called an element of the former.
(c) One of the terms in an algebraic expression.

7. One of the necessary data or values upon which a system of
calculations depends, or general conclusions are based; as, the
elements of a planet's orbit.

8. pl.

Defn: The simplest or fundamental principles of any system in
philosophy, science, or art; rudiments; as, the elements of geometry,
or of music.

9. pl.

Defn: Any outline or sketch, regarded as containing the fundamental
ideas or features of the thing in question; as, the elemental of a
plan.

10. One of the simple substances, as supposed by the ancient
philosophers; one of the imaginary principles of matter.

Note: (a) The four elements were, air, earth, water, and fire; whence
it is said, water is the proper element of fishes; air is the element
of birds. Hence, the state or sphere natural to anything or suited
for its existence.
Of elements The grosser feeds the purer: Earth the Sea; Earth and the
Sea feed Air; the Air those Fires Ethereal. Milton.
Does not our life consist of the four elements Shak.
And the complexion of the element [i. e.,the sky or air] In favor's
like the work we have in hand, Most bloody, fiery, and most terrible.
Shak.
About twelve ounces [of food], with mere element for drink. Cheyne.
They show that they are out of their element. T. Baker.
Esp., the conditions and movements of the air. "The elements be kind
to thee." (b) The elements of the alchemists were salt, sulphur, and
mercury. Brande & C.

11. pl.

Defn: The whole material composing the world.
The elements shall melt with fervent heat. 2 Peter iii. 10.

12. pl. (Eccl.)

Defn: The bread and wine used in the eucharist or Lord's supper.
Magnetic element, one of the hypothetical elementary portions of
which a magnet is regarded as made up.
ELEMENT

=====
El"e*ment, v. t.

1. To compound of elements or first principles. [Obs.] "[Love] being
elemented too." Donne.

2. To constitute; to make up with elements.
His very soul was elemented of nothing but sadness. Walton.
