MASS
Mass, n. Etym: [OE. masse, messe, AS. mæsse. LL. missa, from L.
mittere, missum, to send, dismiss: cf. F. messe. In the ancient
churches, the public services at which the catechumens were permitted
to be present were called missa catechumenorum, ending with the
reading of the Gospel. Then they were dismissed with these words :
"Ite, missa est" [sc. ecclesia], the congregation is dismissed. After
that the sacrifice proper began. At its close the same words were
said to those who remained. So the word gave the name of Mass to the
sacrifice in the Catholic Church. See Missile, and cf. Christmas,
Lammas, Mess a dish, Missal.]

1. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The sacrifice in the sacrament of the Eucharist, or the
consecration and oblation of the host.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: The portions of the Mass usually set to music, considered as a
musical composition; -- namely, the Kyrie, the Gloria, the Credo, the
Sanctus, and the Agnus Dei, besides sometimes an Offertory and the
Benedictus. Canon of the Mass. See Canon.
 -- High Mass, Mass with incense, music, the assistance of a deacon,
subdeacon, etc.
 -- Low Mass, Mass which is said by the priest through-out, without
music.
 -- Mass bell, the sanctus bell. See Sanctus.
 -- Mass book, the missal or Roman Catholic service book.
MASS

=====
Mass, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Massed; p. pr. & vb. n. Massing.]

Defn: To celebrate Mass. [Obs.] Hooker.
MASS

=====
Mass, n. Etym: [OE. masse, F. masse, L. massa; akin to Gr. Macerate.]

1. A quantity of matter cohering together so as to make one body, or
an aggregation of particles or things which collectively make one
body or quantity, usually of considerable size; as, a mass of ore,
metal, sand, or water.
If it were not for these principles, the bodies of the earth,
planets, comets, sun, and all things in them, would grow cold and
freeze, and become inactive masses. Sir I. Newton.
A deep mass of continual sea is slower stirred To rage. Savile.

2. (Phar.)

Defn: A medicinal substance made into a cohesive, homogeneous lump,
of consistency suitable for making pills; as, blue mass.

3. A large quantity; a sum.
All the mass of gold that comes into Spain. Sir W. Raleigh.
He had spent a huge mass of treasure. Sir J. Davies.

4. Bulk; magnitude; body; size.
This army of such mass and charge. Shak.

5. The principal part; the main body.
Night closed upon the pursuit, and aided the mass of the fugitives in
their escape. Jowett (Thucyd.).

6. (Physics)

Defn: The quantity of matter which a body contains, irrespective of
its bulk or volume.

Note: Mass and weight are often used, in a general way, as
interchangeable terms, since the weight of a body is proportional to
its mass (under the same or equal gravitative forces), and the mass
is usually ascertained from the weight. Yet the two ideas, mass and
weight, are quite distinct. Mass is the quantity of matter in a body;
weight is the comparative force with which it tends towards the
center of the earth. A mass of sugar and a mass of lead are assumed
to be equal when they show an equal weight by balancing each other in
the scales. Blue mass. See under Blue.
 -- Mass center (Geom.), the center of gravity of a triangle.
 -- Mass copper, native copper in a large mass.
 -- Mass meeting, a large or general assembly of people, usually a
meeting having some relation to politics.
 -- The masses, the great body of the people, as contrasted with the
higher classes; the populace.
MASS

=====
Mass, v. t.

Defn: To form or collect into a mass; to form into a collective body;
to bring together into masses; to assemble.
But mass them together and they are terrible indeed. Coleridge.
