PATENT
Pat"ent (pât"ent or pat"ent), a. Etym: [L. patens, -entis, p.pr. of
patere to be open: cf. F. patent. Cf. Fathom.]

1.

Note: (Oftener pronounced pat"ent in this sense)

Defn: Open; expanded; evident; apparent; unconcealed; manifest;
public; conspicuous.
He had received instructions, both patent and secret. Motley.

2. Open to public perusal; -- said of a document conferring some
right or privilege; as, letters patent. See Letters patent, under 3d
Letter.

3. Appropriated or protected by letters patent; secured by official
authority to the exclusive possession, control, and disposal of some
person or party; patented; as, a patent right; patent medicines.
Madder . . . in King Charles the First's time, was made a patent
commodity. Mortimer.

4. (Bot.)

Defn: Spreading; forming a nearly right angle with the steam or
branch; as, a patent leaf. Patent leather, a varnished or lacquered
leather, used for boots and shoes, and in carriage and harness work.
 -- Patent office, a government bureau for the examination of
inventions and the granting of patents.
 -- Patent right. (a) The exclusive right to an invention, and the
control of its manufacture. (b) (Law) The right, granted by the
sovereign, of exclusive control of some business of manufacture, or
of the sale of certain articles, or of certain offices or
prerogatives.
 -- Patent rolls, the registers, or records, of patents.
PATENT

=====
Pat"ent, n. Etym: [Cf. F. patente. See Patent, a.]

1. A letter patent, or letters patent; an official document, issued
by a sovereign power, conferring a right or privilege on some person
or party. Specifically:
(a) A writing securing to an invention.
(b) A document making a grant and conveyance of public lands.
Four other gentlemen of quality remained mentioned in that patent.
Fuller.

Note: In the United States, by the act of 1870, patents for
inventions are issued for seventeen years, without the privilege of
renewal except by act of Congress.

2. The right or privilege conferred by such a document; hence,
figuratively, a right, privilege, or license of the nature of a
patent.
If you are so fond over her iniquity, give her patent to offend.
Shak.
PATENT

=====
Pat"ent, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Patented; p. pr. & vb. n. Patenting.]

Defn: To grant by patent; to make the subject of a patent; to secure
or protect by patent; as, to patent an invention; to patent public
lands.
