PLOW; PLOUGH
Plow, Plough (plou), n. Etym: [OE. plouh, plou, AS. ploh; akin to D.
ploeg, G. pflug, OHG. pfluog, pfluoh, Icel. plogr, Sw. plog, Dan.
ploug, plov, Russ. plug', Lith. plugas.]

1. A well-known implement, drawn by horses, mules, oxen, or other
power, for turning up the soil to prepare it for bearing crops; also
used to furrow or break up the soil for other purposes; as, the
subsoil plow; the draining plow.
Where fern succeeds ungrateful to the plow. Dryden.

2. Fig.: Agriculture; husbandry. Johnson.

3. A carucate of land; a plowland. [Obs.] [Eng.]
Johan, mine eldest son, shall have plowes five. Tale of Gamelyn.

4. A joiner's plane for making grooves; a grooving plane.

5. (Bookbinding)

Defn: An implement for trimming or shaving off the edges of books.

6. (Astron.)

Defn: Same as Charles's Wain. Ice plow, a plow used for cutting ice
on rivers, ponds, etc., into cakes suitable for storing. [U. S.] --
Mackerel plow. See under Mackerel.
 -- Plow alms, a penny formerly paid by every plowland to the church.
Cowell.
 -- Plow beam, that part of the frame of a plow to which the draught
is applied. See Beam, n., 9.
 -- Plow Monday, the Monday after Twelth Day, or the end of Christmas
holidays.
 -- Plow staff. (a) A kind of long-handled spade or paddle for
cleaning the plowshare; a paddle staff. (b) A plow handle.
 -- Snow plow, a structure, usually
PLOW; PLOUGH

=====
Plow, Plough, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Plowed (ploud) or Ploughed; p. pr.
& vb. n. Plowing or Ploughing.]

1. To turn up, break up, or trench, with a plow; to till with, or as
with, a plow; as, to plow the ground; to plow a field.

2. To furrow; to make furrows, grooves, or ridges in; to run through,
as in sailing.
Let patient Octavia plow thy visage up With her prepared nails. Shak.
With speed we plow the watery way. Pope.

3. (Bookbinding)

Defn: To trim, or shave off the edges of, as a book or paper, with a
plow. See Plow, n., 5.

4. (Joinery)

Defn: To cut a groove in, as in a plank, or the edge of a board;
especially, a rectangular groove to receive the end of a shelf or
tread, the edge of a panel, a tongue, etc. To plow in, to cover by
plowing; as, to plow in wheat.
 -- To plow up, to turn out of the ground by plowing.plow ahead, to
continue in spite of obstacles or resistence by others.

Note: Often used in a bad sense, meaning to continue obstinately in
spite of the contrary advice of others. plow through, to execute a
difficult or laborious task steadily, esp. one containing many parts;
as, he plowed through the stack of correspondence until all had been
answered.
PLOW; PLOUGH

=====
Plow, Plough (plou), v. i.

Defn: To labor with, or as with, a plow; to till or turn up the soil
with a plow; to till or turn up the soil with a plow; to prepare the
soil or bed for anything. Shak.
Doth the plowman plow all day to sow Isa. xxviii. 24.
