RELIGION
Re*li"gion (r-lj"n), n. Etym: [F., from L. religio; cf. religens
pious, revering the gods, Gr. Neglect.]

1. The outward act or form by which men indicate their recognition of
the existence of a god or of gods having power over their destiny, to
whom obedience, service, and honor are due; the feeling or expression
of human love, fear, or awe of some superhuman and overruling power,
whether by profession of belief, by observance of rites and
ceremonies, or by the conduct of life; a system of faith and worship;
a manifestation of piety; as, ethical religions; monotheistic
religions; natural religion; revealed religion; the religion of the
Jews; the religion of idol worshipers.
An orderly life so far as others are able to observe us is now and
then produced by prudential motives or by dint of habit; but without
seriousness there can be no religious principle at the bottom, no
course of conduct from religious motives; in a word, there can be no
religion. Paley.
Religion [was] not, as too often now, used as equivalent for
godliness; but . . . it expressed the outer form and embodiment which
the inward spirit of a true or a false devotion assumed. Trench.
Religions, by which are meant the modes of sdivine worship proper to
different tribes, nations, or communities, and based on the belief
held in common by the members of them severally . . . There is no
living religion without something like a doctrine. On the other hand,
a doctrine, however elaborate, does not constitute a religion. C. P.
Tiele (Encyc. Brit. ).
Religion . . . means the conscious relation between man and God, and
the expression of that relation in human conduct. J. Köstlin (Schaff-
Herzog Encyc. )
After the most straitest sect of our religion I lived a Pharisce.
Acts xxvi. 5.
The image of a brute, adorned With gay religions full of pomp and
gold. Milton.

2. Specifically, conformity in faith and life to the precepts
inculcated in the Bible, respecting the conduct of life and duty
toward God and man; the Christian faith and practice.
Let us with caution indulge the supposition that morality can be
maintained without religion. Washington.
Religion will attend you . . . as pleasant and useful companion in
every proper place, and every temperate occupation of life.
Buckminster.
