UNDER
Un"der, prep. Etym: [AS. under, prep. & adv.; akin to OFries. under,
OS. undar, D. onder, G. unter, OHG. untar, Icel. undir, Sw. & Dan.
under, Goth. undar, L. infra below, inferior lower, Skr. adhas below.
sq. root201. Cf. Inferior.]

1. Below or lower, in place or position, with the idea of being
covered; lower than; beneath; -- opposed to over; as, he stood under
a tree; the carriage is under cover; a cellar extends under the whole
house.
Fruit put in bottles, and the bottles let down into wells under
water, will keep long. Bacon.
Be gathered now, ye waters under heaven, Into one place. Milton.

2. Hence, in many figurative uses which may be classified as follows;
--
(a) Denoting relation to some thing or person that is superior,
weighs upon, oppresses, bows down, governs, directs, influences
powerfully, or the like, in a relation of subjection, subordination,
obligation, liability, or the like; as, to travel under a heavy load;
to live under extreme oppression; to have fortitude under the evils
of life; to have patience under pain, or under misfortunes; to behave
like a Christian under reproaches and injuries; under the pains and
penalties of the law; the condition under which one enters upon an
office; under the necessity of obeying the laws; under vows of
chastity.

Both Jews and Gentiles . . . are all under sin. Rom. iii. 9.
That led the embattled seraphim to war Under thy conduct. Milton.
Who have their provand Only for bearing burdens, and sore blows For
sinking under them. Shak.

(b) Denoting relation to something that exceeds in rank or degree, in
number, size, weight, age, or the like; in a relation of the less to
the greater, of inferiority, or of falling short.
Three sons he dying left under age. Spenser.
Medicines take effect sometimes under, and sometimes above, the
natural proportion of their virtue. Hooker.
There are several hundred parishes in England under twenty pounds a
year. Swift.
It was too great an honor for any man under a duke. Addison.

Note: Hence, it sometimes means at, with, or for, less than; as, he
would not sell the horse under sixty dollars.
Several young men could never leave the pulpit under half a dozen
conceits. Swift.

(c) Denoting relation to something that comprehends or includes, that
represents or designates, that furnishes a cover, pretext, pretense,
or the like; as, he betrayed him under the guise of friendship;
Morpheus is represented under the figure of a boy asleep.
A crew who, under names of old renown . . . abused Fanatic Egypt.
Milton.
Mr. Duke may be mentioned under the double capacity of a poet and a
divine. Felton.
Under this head may come in the several contests and wars betwixt
popes and the secular princes. C. Leslie.

(d) Less specifically, denoting the relation of being subject, of
undergoing regard, treatment, or the like; as, a bill under
discussion.
Abject and lost, lay these, covering the flood, Under amazement of
their hideous change. Milton.
Under arms. (Mil.) (a) Drawn up fully armed and equipped. (b)
Enrolled for military service; as, the state has a million men under
arms.
 -- Under canvas. (a) (Naut.) Moved or propelled by sails; -- said of
any vessel with her sail set, but especially of a steamer using her
sails only, as distinguished from one under steam. Under steam and
canvas signifies that a vessel is using both means of propulsion. (b)
(Mil.) Provided with, or sheltered in, tents.
 -- Under fire, exposed to an enemy's fire; taking part in a battle
or general engagement.
 -- Under foot. See under Foot, n.
 -- Under ground, below the surface of the ground.
 -- Under one's signature, with one's signature or name subscribed;
attested or confirmed by one's signature. Cf. the second Note under
Over, prep.
 -- Under sail. (Naut.) (a) With anchor up, and under the influence
of sails; moved by sails; in motion. (b) With sails set, though the
anchor is down. (c) Same as Under canvas (a), above. Totten.
 -- Under sentence, having had one's sentence pronounced.
 -- Under the breath, with low voice; very softly.
 -- Under the lee (Naut.), to the leeward; as, under the lee of the
land.
 -- Under the rose. See under Rose, n.
 -- Under water, below the surface of the water.
 -- Under way, or Under weigh (Naut.), in a condition to make
progress; having started.
UNDER

=====
Un"der, adv.

Defn: In a lower, subject, or subordinate condition; in subjection; -
- used chiefly in a few idiomatic phrases; as, to bring under, to
reduce to subjection; to subdue; to keep under, to keep in
subjection; to control; to go under, to be unsuccessful; to fail.
I keep under my body, and bring it into subjection. 1 Cor. ix. 27.
The minstrel fell, but the foeman's chain Could not bring his proud
soul under. Moore.

Note: Under is often used in composition with a verb to indicate
lowness or inferiority in position or degree, in the act named by the
verb; as, to underline; to undermine; to underprop.
UNDER

=====
Un"der, a.

Defn: Lower in position, intensity, rank, or degree; subject;
subordinate; -- generally in composition with a noun, and written
with or without the hyphen; as, an undercurrent; undertone;
underdose; under-garment; underofficer; undersheriff. Under covert
(Zoöl.), one of the feathers situated beneath the bases of the quills
in the wings and tail of a bird. See Illust. under Bird.
